The proposal is for the development of a mathematical model,methods, and libraries to analyze Urban design, as well as patterns of Urban growth and various feature associated with it using MASON. Primary deliverable will be the model along with the system as a library which would make modeling of urban space and its elements easy for future analysis in the field of Computer Aided Urban Design/ Analysis.

> The urban system is an intrinsically dynamic environment – a constant struggle for equilibrium between constraints & requirements, a platform where diverse interactions take place between agents of numerous but finite variety. The constraints maybe dynamic or static. The requirements are a constantly changing set which is often dependent on the present situation thus inducing the concept of feedback. Such a system of agents – who provide constraints and requirements in a heterogeneous & dynamic environment with a constant feedback system could be interpreted as a complex system. Hence urban system needs to be interpreted and analyzed using mathematical methods and techniques in the field of complex system analysis.

Application of such a multi-agent based approach in the field of Urban development provides an opportunity to look at urban growth patterns, profile and form in a completely new light. Drawing analogies from the functioning of Urban System as interactions in a multi-agent environment, a simulation of the same can be used to develop solutions for the Urban Design problem.