#summary Outline of the computational model

= Introduction =

Urbance as mentioned earlier is an agent based approach to interpretation of urban morphology as well as its evolution. Explained below is a rough outline of how the model functions.

Setting up the initial state itself requires significant inputs considering the fact that an urban system is inherently complex in nature. Though actual modeling of an existing urban scenario would require quite a bit of work and such a model ( which would take too many inputs ) would be computationally useless, it is nevertheless important to consider and provide for a few important issues straight from the start. Even if the assumptions of such subsystems are over-simplistic, at later stages they could be made more complex and "interactive" or "evolutionary".

= Set up =

==Physical Setup==

One of the obvious major Subsystems is the Physical Setup . This refers to all the physically observable parts of the computational model. These include the surface ( land surface ), various nodes ( of the transportation network ) the links between the nodes which form the transportation network. Various building blocks which form the major part of urban morphology.

Some major steps involved in Physical Setup is 
 * NodeGeneration
 * NetworkGeneration
 * SubgridGeneration
 * BuildingBlockGeneration

Other Setups are also major parts of the computational model

==Social Setup==

 This part would also include population dynamics.

==Economic Setup==


 This part would detail out how the flow of money or the economic system in general affects the urban evolutionary process.


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages


